operators/error_handling/retrywhen.md, before:

# retryWhen
####signature: `retryWhen(receives: notificationHandler, the: scheduler): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Retry with additional logic

*Description coming soon...*

### Examples

##### Example 1: Trigger retry after specified duration

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/miduqexalo/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/49mkhsyr/) )

```js
//emit value every 1s
const source = Rx.Observable.interval(1000);
const example = source
  .map(val => {
    if(val > 5){
     //error will be picked up by retryWhen
     throw val;
    }
    return val;
  })
  .retryWhen(errors => errors
               //log error message
               .do(val => console.log(`Value ${val} was too high!`))
               //restart in 5 seconds
               .delayWhen(val => Rx.Observable.timer(val * 1000))
            );
/*
  output: 
  0
  1
  2
  3
  4
  5
  "Value 6 was too high!"
  --Wait 5 seconds then repeat
*/
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [retryWhen](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-retryWhen) :newspaper: - Official docs
* [Error handling operator: retry and retryWhen](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-error-handling-operator-retry-and-retrywhen?course=rxjs-beyond-the-basics-operators-in-depth) :video_camera: :dollar: - André Staltz


---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/retryWhen.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/retryWhen.ts)

Commit message:

retryWhen Description
We might want to include examples where retryWhen emits completes or errors to simulate a finite number of retry.

operators/error_handling/retrywhen.md, after:

# retryWhen
####signature: `retryWhen(receives: notificationHandler, the: scheduler): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Retry with additional logic

The **retryWhen** operator mirrors the output of the source except in the case of an error.  When the error occurs the operator would pass the error onto the ```notificationHandler``` function where it would stipulate the next action.  If the function emits an error or complete, the operator would so the same.  If not, the operator would resubscribe to the source and retry.

### Examples

##### Example 1: Trigger retry after specified duration

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/miduqexalo/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/49mkhsyr/) )

```js
//emit value every 1s
const source = Rx.Observable.interval(1000);
const example = source
  .map(val => {
    if(val > 5){
     //error will be picked up by retryWhen
     throw val;
    }
    return val;
  })
  .retryWhen(errors => errors
               //log error message
               .do(val => console.log(`Value ${val} was too high!`))
               //restart in 5 seconds
               .delayWhen(val => Rx.Observable.timer(val * 1000))
            );
/*
  output: 
  0
  1
  2
  3
  4
  5
  "Value 6 was too high!"
  --Wait 5 seconds then repeat
*/
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [retryWhen](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-retryWhen) :newspaper: - Official docs
* [Error handling operator: retry and retryWhen](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-error-handling-operator-retry-and-retrywhen?course=rxjs-beyond-the-basics-operators-in-depth) :video_camera: :dollar: - André Staltz


---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/retryWhen.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/retryWhen.ts)
