operators/filtering/debounce.md, before:

# debounce
####signature: `debounce(durationSelector: function): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Throw away all emitted values that take less then the specified time, based on selector function, between output

*Description coming soon...*

### Examples

##### Example 1: Debounce on timer

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/sorimeyoro/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/e5698yow/) )

```js
//emit four strings
const example = Rx.Observable.of('WAIT','ONE','SECOND','Last will display');
/*
    Only emit values after a second has passed between the last emission, 
    throw away all other values
*/
const debouncedExample = example.debounce(() => Rx.Observable.timer(1000));
/*
    In this example, all values but the last will be omitted
    output: 'Last will display'
*/
const subscribe = debouncedExample.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```

##### Example 2: Debounce at increasing interval

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/sotaretese/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/6ab34nq6/) )

```js
//emit value every 1 second, ex. 0...1...2
const interval = Rx.Observable.interval(1000);
//raise the debounce time by 200ms each second
const debouncedInterval = interval.debounce(val => Rx.Observable.timer(val * 200))
/*
  After 5 seconds, debounce time will be greater than interval time,
  all future values will be thrown away
  output: 0...1...2...3...4......(debounce time over 1s, no values emitted)
*/
const subscribe = debouncedInterval.subscribe(val => console.log(`Example Two: ${val}`));
```


### Additional Resources
* [debounce](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-debounce) :newspaper: - Official docs
* [Transformation operator: debounce and debounceTime](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-transformation-operators-debounce-and-debouncetime?course=rxjs-beyond-the-basics-operators-in-depth) :video_camera: :dollar: - André Staltz

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/debounce.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/debounce.ts)

Commit message:

Common operators rough draft Note: Should add error and fail example so that we can elaborate on those scenario. Should add example using various parameters. of: Talk about source code difference between from and of. The two are easy to understand, but source code would point out the difference. distinctUntilChanged: Non-distinct portion of example 1 is not neccessary. takeUntil: Include an example of a failed notifier. concatMap: Link to concatAll. mergeMap: Link to mergeAll. switchMap: Link to switch. do: Link to doc, current link is to source.

operators/filtering/debounce.md, after:

# debounce
####signature: `debounce(durationSelector: function): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Throw away all emitted values that take less then the specified time, based on selector function, between output

The **debounceTime** operator is not to be confused with the delay operator.  The output value is most current in the stream with 
no backlog of values waiting to be emitted.  The timer on this operator will reset if the source emits a value. Given the example 
below, if you spam the input, debounce will keep resetting its timer.  Until there’s a period of quite (0.5s), you will receive 
no output.

### Examples

##### Example 1: Debounce on timer

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/sorimeyoro/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/e5698yow/) )

```js
//emit four strings
const example = Rx.Observable.of('WAIT','ONE','SECOND','Last will display');
/*
    Only emit values after a second has passed between the last emission, 
    throw away all other values
*/
const debouncedExample = example.debounce(() => Rx.Observable.timer(1000));
/*
    In this example, all values but the last will be omitted
    output: 'Last will display'
*/
const subscribe = debouncedExample.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```

##### Example 2: Debounce at increasing interval

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/sotaretese/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/6ab34nq6/) )

```js
//emit value every 1 second, ex. 0...1...2
const interval = Rx.Observable.interval(1000);
//raise the debounce time by 200ms each second
const debouncedInterval = interval.debounce(val => Rx.Observable.timer(val * 200))
/*
  After 5 seconds, debounce time will be greater than interval time,
  all future values will be thrown away
  output: 0...1...2...3...4......(debounce time over 1s, no values emitted)
*/
const subscribe = debouncedInterval.subscribe(val => console.log(`Example Two: ${val}`));
```


### Additional Resources
* [debounce](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-debounce) :newspaper: - Official docs
* [Transformation operator: debounce and debounceTime](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-transformation-operators-debounce-and-debouncetime?course=rxjs-beyond-the-basics-operators-in-depth) :video_camera: :dollar: - André Staltz

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/debounce.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/debounce.ts)
