operators/filtering/take.md, before:

# take
####signature: ` take(count: number): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Emit only specified number of values

*Description coming soon...*

### Examples

##### Example 1: Take 1 value from source

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/vaxitupiwi/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/f9bz0tr3/) )

```js
//emit 1,2,3,4,5
const source = Rx.Observable.of(1,2,3,4,5);
//take the first emitted value then complete
const example = source.take(1);
//output: 1
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```

##### Example 2: Take the first 5 values from source

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/lovawayefe/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/g1fhxgua/) )

```js
//emit value every 1s
const interval = Rx.Observable.interval(1000);
//take the first 5 emitted values
const example = interval.take(5);
//output: 0,1,2,3,4
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [take](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-take) :newspaper: - Official docs
* [Filtering operator: take, first, skip](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-filtering-operators-take-first-skip?course=rxjs-beyond-the-basics-operators-in-depth) :video_camera: :dollar: - André Staltz

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/take.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/take.ts)

Commit message:

Common operators rough draft Note: Should add error and fail example so that we can elaborate on those scenario. Should add example using various parameters. of: Talk about source code difference between from and of. The two are easy to understand, but source code would point out the difference. distinctUntilChanged: Non-distinct portion of example 1 is not neccessary. takeUntil: Include an example of a failed notifier. concatMap: Link to concatAll. mergeMap: Link to mergeAll. switchMap: Link to switch. do: Link to doc, current link is to source.

operators/filtering/take.md, after:

# take
####signature: ` take(count: number): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Emit only specified number of values

The **take** operator would allow the source to emit the specified number of values.

### Examples

##### Example 1: Take 1 value from source

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/vaxitupiwi/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/f9bz0tr3/) )

```js
//emit 1,2,3,4,5
const source = Rx.Observable.of(1,2,3,4,5);
//take the first emitted value then complete
const example = source.take(1);
//output: 1
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```

##### Example 2: Take the first 5 values from source

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/lovawayefe/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/g1fhxgua/) )

```js
//emit value every 1s
const interval = Rx.Observable.interval(1000);
//take the first 5 emitted values
const example = interval.take(5);
//output: 0,1,2,3,4
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [take](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-take) :newspaper: - Official docs
* [Filtering operator: take, first, skip](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-filtering-operators-take-first-skip?course=rxjs-beyond-the-basics-operators-in-depth) :video_camera: :dollar: - André Staltz

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/take.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/take.ts)
