operators/multicasting/publish.md, before:

# publish
####signature: `publish() : ConnectableObservable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Do nothing until connect is called, share source

*Description coming soon...*

### Examples

##### Example 1: Connect observable after subscribers

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/laguvecixi/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/fpe6csaz/) )

```js
//emit value every 1 second
const source = Rx.Observable.interval(1000);
const example = source
  //side effects will be executed once
  .do(() => console.log('Do Something!'))
  //do nothing until connect() is called
  .publish();

/*
  source will not emit values until connect() is called
  output: (after 5s) 
  "Do Something!"
  "Subscriber One: 0"
  "Subscriber Two: 0"
  "Do Something!"
  "Subscriber One: 1"
  "Subscriber Two: 1"
*/
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(`Subscriber One: ${val}`));
const subscribeTwo = example.subscribe(val => console.log(`Subscriber Two: ${val}`));

//call connect after 5 seconds, causing source to begin emitting items
setTimeout(() => {
 example.connect(); 
},5000)
```


### Additional Resources
* [publish](http://reactivex-rxjs5.surge.sh/function/index.html#static-function-publish) :newspaper: - Official docs


> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/publish.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/publish.ts)

Commit message:

Updated all operator descriptions (#22)
Updated formatting and simplified descriptions for all operators. The goal is to shift focus to more high-quality, real-world operator examples with easy to understand (less dense) descriptions. Wording for descriptions may change soon to more of a when to use style, based on feedback.

operators/multicasting/publish.md, after:

# publish
####signature: `publish() : ConnectableObservable`

## Share source and make hot by calling connect.

### Examples

##### Example 1: Connect observable after subscribers

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/laguvecixi/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/fpe6csaz/) )

```js
//emit value every 1 second
const source = Rx.Observable.interval(1000);
const example = source
  //side effects will be executed once
  .do(() => console.log('Do Something!'))
  //do nothing until connect() is called
  .publish();

/*
  source will not emit values until connect() is called
  output: (after 5s) 
  "Do Something!"
  "Subscriber One: 0"
  "Subscriber Two: 0"
  "Do Something!"
  "Subscriber One: 1"
  "Subscriber Two: 1"
*/
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(`Subscriber One: ${val}`));
const subscribeTwo = example.subscribe(val => console.log(`Subscriber Two: ${val}`));

//call connect after 5 seconds, causing source to begin emitting items
setTimeout(() => {
 example.connect(); 
},5000)
```


### Additional Resources
* [publish](http://reactivex-rxjs5.surge.sh/function/index.html#static-function-publish) :newspaper: - Official docs


> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/publish.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/publish.ts)
