operators/multicasting/share.md, before:

# share
####signature: `share(): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Share source among multiple subscribers

*Description coming soon...*

> :bulb: Tip: share is like [multicast](multicast.md) with a Subject and refCount!

### Examples

##### Example 1: Multiple subscribers sharing source

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/jobiyomari/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/Lmesxxaq/) )

```js
//emit value in 1s
const source = Rx.Observable.timer(1000);
//log side effect, emit result
const example = source
  .do(() => console.log('***SIDE EFFECT***'))
  .mapTo('***RESULT***');
/*
  ***NOT SHARED, SIDE EFFECT WILL BE EXECUTED TWICE***
  output: 
  "***SIDE EFFECT***"
  "***RESULT***"
  "***SIDE EFFECT***"
  "***RESULT***"
*/
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
const subscribeTwo = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));

//share observable among subscribers
const sharedExample = example.share();
/*
  ***SHARED, SIDE EFFECT EXECUTED ONCE***
  output: 
  "***SIDE EFFECT***"
  "***RESULT***"
  "***RESULT***"
*/
const subscribeThree = sharedExample.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
const subscribeFour = sharedExample.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [share](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-share) :newspaper: - Official docs
* [Sharing streams with share](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-sharing-streams-with-share?course=step-by-step-async-javascript-with-rxjs) :video_camera: :dollar: - John Linquist

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/share.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/share.ts)

Commit message:

Common operators rough draft Note: Should add error and fail example so that we can elaborate on those scenario. Should add example using various parameters. of: Talk about source code difference between from and of. The two are easy to understand, but source code would point out the difference. distinctUntilChanged: Non-distinct portion of example 1 is not neccessary. takeUntil: Include an example of a failed notifier. concatMap: Link to concatAll. mergeMap: Link to mergeAll. switchMap: Link to switch. do: Link to doc, current link is to source.

operators/multicasting/share.md, after:

# share
####signature: `share(): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Share source among multiple subscribers

The **share** operator allows you to subscribe to the observable in multiple location while performing 
the work within the observable once just once. The example below illustrate this concept. Without share, 
the side effect of the observable occur twice. With share, the side effect only occur once when whichever 
subscription first emit. This can be more evident if you place a delay on one of them.  The one without delay 
will emit the side effect and result, then the one after will emit only the result.

> :bulb: Tip: share is like [multicast](multicast.md) with a Subject and refCount!

### Examples

##### Example 1: Multiple subscribers sharing source

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/jobiyomari/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/Lmesxxaq/) )

```js
//emit value in 1s
const source = Rx.Observable.timer(1000);
//log side effect, emit result
const example = source
  .do(() => console.log('***SIDE EFFECT***'))
  .mapTo('***RESULT***');
/*
  ***NOT SHARED, SIDE EFFECT WILL BE EXECUTED TWICE***
  output: 
  "***SIDE EFFECT***"
  "***RESULT***"
  "***SIDE EFFECT***"
  "***RESULT***"
*/
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
const subscribeTwo = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));

//share observable among subscribers
const sharedExample = example.share();
/*
  ***SHARED, SIDE EFFECT EXECUTED ONCE***
  output: 
  "***SIDE EFFECT***"
  "***RESULT***"
  "***RESULT***"
*/
const subscribeThree = sharedExample.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
const subscribeFour = sharedExample.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [share](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-share) :newspaper: - Official docs
* [Sharing streams with share](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-sharing-streams-with-share?course=step-by-step-async-javascript-with-rxjs) :video_camera: :dollar: - John Linquist

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/share.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/share.ts)
