operators/transformation/buffertime.md, before:

# bufferTime
####signature: `bufferTime(bufferTimeSpan: number, bufferCreationInterval: number, scheduler: Scheduler): Observable`
*The gist: Collect output values until specified time has passed then hand them over. Repeat...*

### Description

###### TL;DR: Collect emitted values until provided time has passed, emit as array

*Description coming soon...*

### Examples

##### Example 1: Buffer for 2 seconds

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/bafakiyife/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/vx7vwg01/) )

```js
//Create an observable that emits a value every 500ms
const source = Rx.Observable.interval(500);
//After 2 seconds have passed, emit buffered values as an array
const example = source.bufferTime(2000);
//Print values to console
//ex. output [0,1,2]...[3,4,5,6]
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log('Buffered with Time:', val));
```

##### Example 2: Multiple active buffers

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/tadiwiniri/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/7k4ygj1x/) )

```js
//Create an observable that emits a value every 500ms
const source = Rx.Observable.interval(500);
/*
bufferTime also takes second argument, when to start the next buffer (time in ms)
for instance, if we have a bufferTime of 2 seconds but second argument (bufferCreationInterval) of 1 second:
ex. output: [0,1,2]...[1,2,3,4,5]...[3,4,5,6,7]
*/
const example = source.bufferTime(2000,1000);
//Print values to console
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log('Start Buffer Every 1s:', val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [bufferTime](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-bufferTime) :newspaper: - Official docs

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/bufferTime.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/bufferTime.ts)

Commit message:

Common operators rough draft Note: Should add error and fail example so that we can elaborate on those scenario. Should add example using various parameters. of: Talk about source code difference between from and of. The two are easy to understand, but source code would point out the difference. distinctUntilChanged: Non-distinct portion of example 1 is not neccessary. takeUntil: Include an example of a failed notifier. concatMap: Link to concatAll. mergeMap: Link to mergeAll. switchMap: Link to switch. do: Link to doc, current link is to source.

operators/transformation/buffertime.md, after:

# bufferTime
####signature: `bufferTime(bufferTimeSpan: number, bufferCreationInterval: number, scheduler: Scheduler): Observable`
*The gist: Collect output values until specified time has passed then hand them over. Repeat...*

### Description

###### TL;DR: Collect emitted values until provided time has passed, emit as array

The **bufferTime** operator will group the values from the observable into an array emit the array after the 
specified time.  If the source gives no value, the observable will not emit an empty array.

### Examples

##### Example 1: Buffer for 2 seconds

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/bafakiyife/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/vx7vwg01/) )

```js
//Create an observable that emits a value every 500ms
const source = Rx.Observable.interval(500);
//After 2 seconds have passed, emit buffered values as an array
const example = source.bufferTime(2000);
//Print values to console
//ex. output [0,1,2]...[3,4,5,6]
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log('Buffered with Time:', val));
```

##### Example 2: Multiple active buffers

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/tadiwiniri/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/7k4ygj1x/) )

```js
//Create an observable that emits a value every 500ms
const source = Rx.Observable.interval(500);
/*
bufferTime also takes second argument, when to start the next buffer (time in ms)
for instance, if we have a bufferTime of 2 seconds but second argument (bufferCreationInterval) of 1 second:
ex. output: [0,1,2]...[1,2,3,4,5]...[3,4,5,6,7]
*/
const example = source.bufferTime(2000,1000);
//Print values to console
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log('Start Buffer Every 1s:', val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [bufferTime](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-bufferTime) :newspaper: - Official docs

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/bufferTime.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/bufferTime.ts)
