operators/transformation/buffertoggle.md, before:

# bufferToggle

#### signature: `bufferToggle(openings: Observable, closingSelector: Function): Observable`

## Toggle on to catch emitted values from source, toggle off to emit buffered values as array.

<div class="ua-ad"><a href="https://ultimatecourses.com/?ref=76683_kee7y7vk"><img src="https://ultimatecourses.com/assets/img/banners/uc-leader.svg" style="width:100%;max-width:100%"></a></div>

### Examples

##### Example 1: Toggle buffer on and off at interval

( [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/edit/typescript-xu3sq8?file=index.ts&devtoolsheight=100) | [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/relavezugo/edit?js,console) |
[jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/6ad3w3wf/) )

```js
// RxJS v6+
import { interval } from 'rxjs';
import { bufferToggle } from 'rxjs/operators';

//emit value every second
const sourceInterval = interval(1000);
//start first buffer after 5s, and every 5s after
const startInterval = interval(5000);
//emit value after 3s, closing corresponding buffer
const closingInterval = val => {
  console.log(`Value ${val} emitted, starting buffer! Closing in 3s!`);
  return interval(3000);
};
//every 5s a new buffer will start, collecting emitted values for 3s then emitting buffered values
const bufferToggleInterval = sourceInterval.pipe(
  bufferToggle(
    startInterval,
    closingInterval
  )
);
//log to console
//ex. emitted buffers [4,5,6]...[9,10,11]
const subscribe = bufferToggleInterval.subscribe(val =>
  console.log('Emitted Buffer:', val)
);
```

### Additional Resources

* [bufferToggle](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-bufferToggle)
  :newspaper: - Official docs

---

> :file_folder: Source Code:
> [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/internal/operators/bufferToggle.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/internal/operators/bufferToggle.ts)

Commit message:

Update buffertoggle.md with another example

operators/transformation/buffertoggle.md, after:

# bufferToggle

#### signature: `bufferToggle(openings: Observable, closingSelector: Function): Observable`

## Toggle on to catch emitted values from source, toggle off to emit buffered values as array.

<div class="ua-ad"><a href="https://ultimatecourses.com/?ref=76683_kee7y7vk"><img src="https://ultimatecourses.com/assets/img/banners/uc-leader.svg" style="width:100%;max-width:100%"></a></div>

### Examples

##### Example 1: Toggle buffer on and off at interval

( [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/edit/typescript-xu3sq8?file=index.ts&devtoolsheight=100) | [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/relavezugo/edit?js,console) |
[jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/6ad3w3wf/) )

```js
// RxJS v6+
import { interval } from 'rxjs';
import { bufferToggle } from 'rxjs/operators';

//emit value every second
const sourceInterval = interval(1000);
//start first buffer after 5s, and every 5s after
const startInterval = interval(5000);
//emit value after 3s, closing corresponding buffer
const closingInterval = val => {
  console.log(`Value ${val} emitted, starting buffer! Closing in 3s!`);
  return interval(3000);
};
//every 5s a new buffer will start, collecting emitted values for 3s then emitting buffered values
const bufferToggleInterval = sourceInterval.pipe(
  bufferToggle(
    startInterval,
    closingInterval
  )
);
//log to console
//ex. emitted buffers [4,5,6]...[9,10,11]
const subscribe = bufferToggleInterval.subscribe(val =>
  console.log('Emitted Buffer:', val)
);
```

##### Example 2: Toggle buffer on and off on mouse down/up
( [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/edit/rxjs-buffertoggle-mousemove) )

```js
import { fromEvent } from 'rxjs';
import { bufferToggle } from 'rxjs/operators';

fromEvent(document, 'mousemove')
  .pipe(
    bufferToggle(
      fromEvent(document, 'mousedown'),
      _ => fromEvent(document, 'mouseup')
    )
  )
.subscribe(console.log)
```

### Additional Resources

* [bufferToggle](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-bufferToggle)
  :newspaper: - Official docs

---

> :file_folder: Source Code:
> [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/internal/operators/bufferToggle.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/internal/operators/bufferToggle.ts)
