operators/transformation/concatmap.md, before:

# concatMap
####signature: `concatMap(project: function, resultSelector: function): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Map values from source to inner observable, subscribe and emit inner observable values in order

*Description coming soon...*

### Examples

##### Example 1: Map to inner observable

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/powivemaxu/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/y3yx666r/) )

```js
//emit 'Hello' and 'Goodbye'
const source = Rx.Observable.of('Hello', 'Goodbye');
// map value from source into inner observable, when complete emit result and move to next
const example = source.concatMap(val => Rx.Observable.of(`${val} World!`));
//output: 'Example One: 'Hello World', Example One: 'Goodbye World'
const subscribe = example
  .subscribe(val => console.log('Example One:', val));
```

##### Example 2: Map to promise

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/celixodeba/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/Lym33L97//) )


```js
//emit 'Hello' and 'Goodbye'
const source = Rx.Observable.of('Hello', 'Goodbye');
//example with promise
const examplePromise = val => new Promise(resolve => resolve(`${val} World!`));
// map value from source into inner observable, when complete emit result and move to next
const example = source.concatMap(val => examplePromise(val))
//output: 'Example w/ Promise: 'Hello World', Example w/ Promise: 'Goodbye World'
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log('Example w/ Promise:', val));
```

##### Example 3: Supplying a projection function

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/vihacewozo/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/5sr5zzgy/) )

```js
//emit 'Hello' and 'Goodbye'
const source = Rx.Observable.of('Hello', 'Goodbye');
//example with promise
const examplePromise = val => new Promise(resolve => resolve(`${val} World!`));
//result of first param passed to second param selector function before being  returned
const example = source.concatMap(val => examplePromise(val), result => `${result} w/ selector!`);
//output: 'Example w/ Selector: 'Hello w/ Selector', Example w/ Selector: 'Goodbye w/ Selector'
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log('Example w/ Selector:', val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [concatMap](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-concatMap) :newspaper: - Official docs

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/concatMap.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/concatMap.ts)

Commit message:

Common operators rough draft Note: Should add error and fail example so that we can elaborate on those scenario. Should add example using various parameters. of: Talk about source code difference between from and of. The two are easy to understand, but source code would point out the difference. distinctUntilChanged: Non-distinct portion of example 1 is not neccessary. takeUntil: Include an example of a failed notifier. concatMap: Link to concatAll. mergeMap: Link to mergeAll. switchMap: Link to switch. do: Link to doc, current link is to source.

operators/transformation/concatmap.md, after:

# concatMap
####signature: `concatMap(project: function, resultSelector: function): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Map values from source to inner observable, subscribe and emit inner observable values in order

The **concatMap** operator takes a project function and returns the source’s output as an observable after it has pass through 
the project function.  It then flatten the output using the **concatAll** operator and emits them. 

### Examples

##### Example 1: Map to inner observable

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/powivemaxu/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/y3yx666r/) )

```js
//emit 'Hello' and 'Goodbye'
const source = Rx.Observable.of('Hello', 'Goodbye');
// map value from source into inner observable, when complete emit result and move to next
const example = source.concatMap(val => Rx.Observable.of(`${val} World!`));
//output: 'Example One: 'Hello World', Example One: 'Goodbye World'
const subscribe = example
  .subscribe(val => console.log('Example One:', val));
```

##### Example 2: Map to promise

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/celixodeba/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/Lym33L97//) )


```js
//emit 'Hello' and 'Goodbye'
const source = Rx.Observable.of('Hello', 'Goodbye');
//example with promise
const examplePromise = val => new Promise(resolve => resolve(`${val} World!`));
// map value from source into inner observable, when complete emit result and move to next
const example = source.concatMap(val => examplePromise(val))
//output: 'Example w/ Promise: 'Hello World', Example w/ Promise: 'Goodbye World'
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log('Example w/ Promise:', val));
```

##### Example 3: Supplying a projection function

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/vihacewozo/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/5sr5zzgy/) )

```js
//emit 'Hello' and 'Goodbye'
const source = Rx.Observable.of('Hello', 'Goodbye');
//example with promise
const examplePromise = val => new Promise(resolve => resolve(`${val} World!`));
//result of first param passed to second param selector function before being  returned
const example = source.concatMap(val => examplePromise(val), result => `${result} w/ selector!`);
//output: 'Example w/ Selector: 'Hello w/ Selector', Example w/ Selector: 'Goodbye w/ Selector'
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log('Example w/ Selector:', val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [concatMap](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-concatMap) :newspaper: - Official docs

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/concatMap.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/concatMap.ts)
