operators/transformation/map.md, before:

# map
####signature: `map(project: Function, thisArg: any): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Apply projection to each value from source

*Description coming soon...*

### Examples

##### Example 1: Add 10 to each number

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/padasukano/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/yd38awLa/) )

```js
//emit (1,2,3,4,5)
const source = Rx.Observable.from([1,2,3,4,5]);
//add 10 to each value
const example = source.map(val => val + 10);
//output: 11,12,13,14,15
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```

##### Example 2: Map to single property

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/detozumale/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/tdLd5tgc/) )

```js
//emit ({name: 'Joe', age: 30}, {name: 'Frank', age: 20},{name: 'Ryan', age: 50})
const source = Rx.Observable.from([{name: 'Joe', age: 30}, {name: 'Frank', age: 20},{name: 'Ryan', age: 50}]);
//grab each persons name
const example = source.map(person => person.name);
//output: "Joe","Frank","Ryan"
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [map](http://reactivex-rxjs5.surge.sh/function/index.html#static-function-map) :newspaper: - Official docs
* [map vs flatMap](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-rxjs-map-vs-flatmap) :video_camera: - Ben Lesh
* [Transformation operator: map and mapTo](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-transformation-operator-map-and-mapto?course=rxjs-beyond-the-basics-operators-in-depth) :video_camera: :dollar: - André Staltz

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/map.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/map.ts)

Commit message:

Common operators rough draft Note: Should add error and fail example so that we can elaborate on those scenario. Should add example using various parameters. of: Talk about source code difference between from and of. The two are easy to understand, but source code would point out the difference. distinctUntilChanged: Non-distinct portion of example 1 is not neccessary. takeUntil: Include an example of a failed notifier. concatMap: Link to concatAll. mergeMap: Link to mergeAll. switchMap: Link to switch. do: Link to doc, current link is to source.

operators/transformation/map.md, after:

# map
####signature: `map(project: Function, thisArg: any): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Apply projection to each value from source

The **map** operator is similar to the well-known map operator you’ve most likely used before. 
The difference is now you can attach it to a source and the operator will return an observable.

### Examples

##### Example 1: Add 10 to each number

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/padasukano/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/yd38awLa/) )

```js
//emit (1,2,3,4,5)
const source = Rx.Observable.from([1,2,3,4,5]);
//add 10 to each value
const example = source.map(val => val + 10);
//output: 11,12,13,14,15
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```

##### Example 2: Map to single property

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/detozumale/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/tdLd5tgc/) )

```js
//emit ({name: 'Joe', age: 30}, {name: 'Frank', age: 20},{name: 'Ryan', age: 50})
const source = Rx.Observable.from([{name: 'Joe', age: 30}, {name: 'Frank', age: 20},{name: 'Ryan', age: 50}]);
//grab each persons name
const example = source.map(person => person.name);
//output: "Joe","Frank","Ryan"
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [map](http://reactivex-rxjs5.surge.sh/function/index.html#static-function-map) :newspaper: - Official docs
* [map vs flatMap](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-rxjs-map-vs-flatmap) :video_camera: - Ben Lesh
* [Transformation operator: map and mapTo](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-transformation-operator-map-and-mapto?course=rxjs-beyond-the-basics-operators-in-depth) :video_camera: :dollar: - André Staltz

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/map.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/map.ts)
