operators/transformation/mergemap.md, before:

# mergeMap
#### signature: `mergeMap(project: function: Observable, resultSelector: function: any, concurrent: number): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Map values from source to inner observable, merge output

*Description coming soon...*

> :bulb: Tip: flatMap is an alias for mergeMap!

### Examples

##### Example 1: mergeMap with observable

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/mojurubana/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/41awjgda/) )

```js
//emit 'Hello'
const source = Rx.Observable.of('Hello');
//map to inner observable and flatten
const example = source.mergeMap(val => Rx.Observable.of(`${val} World!`));
//output: 'Hello World!'
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```

##### Example 2: mergeMap with promise

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/vuhecorana/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/o9kxpvsv/) )

```js
//emit 'Hello'
const source = Rx.Observable.of('Hello');
//mergeMap also emits result of promise
const myPromise = val => new Promise(resolve => resolve(`${val} World From Promise!`));
//map to promise and emit result
const example = source.mergeMap(val => myPromise(val));
//output: 'Hello World From Promise'
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```

##### Example 3: mergeMap with projection function

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/wajokocage/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/zu9a6vr4/) )

```js
/*
  you can also supply a second argument which recieves the source value and emitted
  value of inner observable or promise
*/
//emit 'Hello'
const source = Rx.Observable.of('Hello');
//mergeMap also emits result of promise
const myPromise = val => new Promise(resolve => resolve(`${val} World From Promise!`));
const example = source
  .mergeMap(val => myPromise(val), 
    (valueFromSource, valueFromPromise) => {
      return `Source: ${valueFromSource}, Promise: ${valueFromPromise}`;
});
//output: "Source: Hello, Promise: Hello World From Promise!"
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [mergeMap](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-mergeMap) :newspaper: - Official docs
* [map vs flatMap](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-rxjs-map-vs-flatmap) :video_camera: - Ben Lesh
* [Async requests and responses in RxJS](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-04-reactive-programming-async-requests-and-responses-in-rxjs) :video_camera: :dollar: - André Staltz

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/mergeMap.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/mergeMap.ts)

Commit message:

Common Operator Descriptions
Short descriptions for most common operators

operators/transformation/mergemap.md, after:

# mergeMap
#### signature: `mergeMap(project: function: Observable, resultSelector: function: any, concurrent: number): Observable`

### Description

###### TL;DR: Map values from source to inner observable, merge output

The **mergeMap** operator takes a project function, subscribing to the returned observable and emitting the output.  **mergeMap** can also handle promises, emitting the resolved value, and arrays or iterables, emitting each value in a sequence.

> :bulb: Tip: flatMap is an alias for mergeMap!

> :bulb: Tip: mergeMap is one of the most popular operators for handling HTTP requests!

### Examples

##### Example 1: mergeMap with observable

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/mojurubana/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/41awjgda/) )

```js
//emit 'Hello'
const source = Rx.Observable.of('Hello');
//map to inner observable and flatten
const example = source.mergeMap(val => Rx.Observable.of(`${val} World!`));
//output: 'Hello World!'
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```

##### Example 2: mergeMap with promise

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/vuhecorana/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/o9kxpvsv/) )

```js
//emit 'Hello'
const source = Rx.Observable.of('Hello');
//mergeMap also emits result of promise
const myPromise = val => new Promise(resolve => resolve(`${val} World From Promise!`));
//map to promise and emit result
const example = source.mergeMap(val => myPromise(val));
//output: 'Hello World From Promise'
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```

##### Example 3: mergeMap with projection function

( [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/wajokocage/1/edit?js,console) | [jsFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/btroncone/zu9a6vr4/) )

```js
/*
  you can also supply a second argument which recieves the source value and emitted
  value of inner observable or promise
*/
//emit 'Hello'
const source = Rx.Observable.of('Hello');
//mergeMap also emits result of promise
const myPromise = val => new Promise(resolve => resolve(`${val} World From Promise!`));
const example = source
  .mergeMap(val => myPromise(val), 
    (valueFromSource, valueFromPromise) => {
      return `Source: ${valueFromSource}, Promise: ${valueFromPromise}`;
});
//output: "Source: Hello, Promise: Hello World From Promise!"
const subscribe = example.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```


### Additional Resources
* [mergeMap](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-mergeMap) :newspaper: - Official docs
* [map vs flatMap](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-rxjs-map-vs-flatmap) :video_camera: - Ben Lesh
* [Async requests and responses in RxJS](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-04-reactive-programming-async-requests-and-responses-in-rxjs) :video_camera: :dollar: - André Staltz

---
> :file_folder: Source Code:  [https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/mergeMap.ts](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/src/operator/mergeMap.ts)
